oh hi i'm bob schrupp physical therapist
and i'm brad heineck physical therapist
together we are the most famous physical
therapist on the internet in our opinion
of course bob what's got in your hands
bob brad this is a simulated weight a
barbell
sure and these are the weights on the
end of it so
we're going to go over the three most
important rules
to doing a safe squat right safe squat i
think
squatting with a barbell with a barbell
is an excellent way for strengthening
for
not total body but for a great not a
great deal of the muscles yeah the big
muscles in the hips and the legs
and if you do it properly it helps
strengthen the back as well all these
rolls
so let's get the weight over okay and
you're going to have a squat rack and
everything here usually don't do it open
like
on the shoulders by the way not on the
neck here right
right yeah back here at the shoulder so
you got a little meat there a lot of
times there'll be a little cushion on
that bar we're not going to get into
that
okay now the first thing we're going to
do is back
what's going on with the back when the
arch of the left arch the back of the
little angle there
so if i put a straight line here like
this we're going to use this for
to make sure we're straight his head's
touching we're here
and the butt's touching we got a little
arch right in here
that's a healthy arch okay maintain that
posture throughout the whole lift
okay now we're going to look down at the
legs
go ahead bob sweat and if you put a line
straight up from the toes the knee
should not go
past that line that would be improper
too much pressure on the knees you're
gonna
damage your knees with doing that and
this takes a practice to do this right
you're gonna practice it
with a dummy barbell like this or an
empty barbell
and what you want to do too is is keep
your head
up straight up don't be going like this
right
there goes the back up yep so you're
keeping the back
up and down and down straight okay so
again straight back the knee should not
go past this plumb line and then
i see this a lot in the weight room and
i've seen it
in competition as well you have to go
down so far
but you don't want to go if you put a
line with the
femur this should go parallel but not
dip
down now bob is breaking all kinds of
levels here i'm breaking the forward
rule i'm leaning too far
forward everything is terrible right i
see you guys go way down they have more
flexibility than me but they're way down
like this
right the younger people can keep that
knee where it belongs
and then they end up squatting too deep
and there's no reason to go back
past level right if you're not competing
right
there's just no reason at all it's just
put a lot of stress on the back your
background's out there's no way that you
can stop your back
from not rounding out which is a problem
and i've seen uh as a matter of fact my
nephew was a big power lifter in high
school
he's 25 now and he's got back problems
and i'm sure it's from absolutely yeah
terrible body mechanics
um and they all did i mean most of them
um because
that it takes a lot of practice and uh
people aren't patient enough i guess
right like brad said you want to start
off with uh no weight or
very little weight so once again bob
if you want to be strong like bull i
think if you lift the lift properly and
subscribe
to us for more helpful hints that
subscribe button
better believe it all right